1: My representative is Joaquin Castro. He serves on the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and the New Democrat Coalition. Two issues he fights for is the right to abortion and immigrant rights.

1: The two committees I chose are the Agriculture Committee and the Veteran's Affair Committee. The chair of the agriculture committee is Chairman Glenn Thompson and the chair of the Veteran's Affair Committee is Mike Bost. A subcommittee of the Agriculture Committee is the Forestry Conservation Committee, and a subcommittee of the Veteran's Affair Committee is the Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs Committee.

3- Based on chapter 11 of the textbook, why is redistricting conducted every ten years? Redistricting occurs due to the fluctuation of the population number in order to address any change in the concentration of a given population.

4- What is congressional oversight? Congressional oversight is a reference to the oversight the United States Congress has over the Executive Branch.

5- What are two advantages of incumbency? To advantages of incubency is that a candidate has more of an advantage over any challenging candidate, and easier access to financing their campaigns and government resources.

6- What does the term pork-barrel politics refer to? It is a metaphor for government spending for localized projects solely to bring money to a certain representative's district.

7- Look over the article Delegate or Trustee, (click here

Links to an external site.) and answer the following questions. Choose one of the two congresspersons. Then answer the question, are they acting as a delegate or trustee? Why? 3 Sentence minimum. The congressperson I chose was Congresswoman Zito. I believe she is acting as a delegate due to the fact that she primarily places the opinion of her community members first above herself and acts in a very grassroots way rather than a bureaucratic way. This shows a distinct difference between the way Congresswoman Zito may act in comparison to a trustee. 

8- Watch the video, How Committees Work (click here

Links to an external site.) and answer the following questions.

 What committees does the congressmen serve on? She served on the Idaho State Senate and was part of the Agricultural Affairs
Judiciary, Rules, and Administratation and State Affairs Committees respectively.

 What is the function of the steering committee? A steering committee is responsible for the oversight within a committee.

 List two of the four primary functions of committees. Two of the four primary functions of committees is to have a bill hearing and conducting oversight investigations into the bills.

 What does he say about “markup of bills”? A markup of bills is when a bill is decided whether or not it should be recommended to the full house.

 List 2 items that are listed on a bill that is “ordered reported” out of a committee. a majority of the commitee must be phyiscally present and that the committee can report the measure as introduced, or with a series of ammendments. 



