A state can essentially legalize marijuana when it is a schedule 1 drug under federal law by not prosecuting it, and as a result it will not be sent to a federal court for prosecution. This is a loophole which essentially allows those within the states where marijuana or magic mushrooms are decriminalized to consume the products under the regulation of the specific state (i.e. no more than 2.5 or 3.5 grams etc..), and not be federally prosecuted. However, this does not apply to if a federal agent is in the area and catches someone consuming illegal substances, as the federal agent has the ability to override state law. For example, if there is a murderer in Colorado being sought out by the federal government for their crimes against humanity, and he is caught with MDMA, marijuana, or anything illegal under federal law but decriminalized under state law, the federal law can still prosecute them. I wholeheartedly believe that federal law around substance abuse should be ammended to allow for the consumption of drugs for consenting adults, as I do believe that it is someone's freedom to engage in any act they consent to so long as they do not infringe on anyone else's rights, even if the act is completely dangerous if abused. It should be the state's say in what one does with their body so long as they are not forcing it upon others. Furthermore, it has been proven that in places where substances are legalized and citizens are educated on harm reduction rather than cold turkey abstinence, there are significantly fewer cases of abuse and overdose deaths, mostly due to many illicit substances now containing many precursor drugs, or drugs that are completely different from what is being advertised. For example, the case of ecstasy it was found that over 70% of advertised "ecstasy" contains now MDMA at all, but instead substances such as methamphetamine, bath salt cathinones, or even rat poison. The education around harm reduction of substances not only would provide a safer means for those who do decide to consume drugs, but also does not infringe on our constitutional right to privacy. If anything that is dangerous to human life should be illegal, then by that standard we should criminalize suicidal tendencies, divorce, and so on, yet this would be completely irrational. Should we ban acetaminophen, the active ingredient in tylenol since it has the potential to cause liver toxicity and potentially kill someone? Obviously this would be completely irrational to anyone living in the modern age, and harm reduction advice is given to those who do consume Tylenol, and they are informed of the potential harm from consuming too much. The same should be applied to illicit substances banned by law as nobody is going to ever surrender their freedom to the state, and the act of simply banning a substance has caused more harm than good. 
